This is the open-source code for the paper "MPA-KD: Toward Efficient Aerial Object Detection via Multi-Feature Pyramid Aggregation with Knowledge Distillation." The paper is currently under review.

Abstract : Small objects in drone aerial images typically exhibit low resolution, low signal-to-noise ratio, and limited semantic information. Existing object detectors struggle to achieve a good balance between detection accuracy and model complexity. To effectively balance detection accuracy and computational efficiency, we propose a lightweight network MPA-KD based on the YOLOv11 architecture. Specifically, we design a Multi-scale Shuffled Feature Amplification (MSFA) upsampling module based on a channel shuffling mechanism and depth-separable convolutions.Subsequently, to address information loss during feature fusion, we develop a Progressive Attention Fusion (PAF) module.Furthermore, we propose an Adaptive Multi-scale Self-learning Interaction (AMSI) structure based on a residual architecture and adaptive weighting mechanisms to achieve dynamic fusion of feature maps at three different scales. In the detection head, we replace the low-resolution P5 layer with a high-resolution P2 layer. Finally, we introduce the Channel-Wise Distillation(CWD) knowledge distillation method, which enhances foreground and effective background information in the student model. This approach improves the detection accuracy of the MPA network while controlling the growth of model parameters. Our model achieves mAP50 scores of 48.6%, 78.5%, and 91.4% on the VisDrone2019, DIOR, and NWPU VHR-10 public datasets, respectively, surpassing the YOLOv11n baseline by 52.8%, 2.2%, and 0.5%.Moreover, the number of parameters is only 5.2 million.MPA-KD achieves detection accuracy surpassing current state-of-the-art methods with fewer parameters and reduce computational overhead. To demonstrate its practicality, we have successfully deployed the model on mobile edge devices.
